We've now got a starting component put together for our album list which means we now need to figure
out somehow an album list to make an age TGP request to go and fetch our list of albums to solve this
problem.
We're going to have to expand our knowledge of react in a pretty big way.
So remember the big challenge here is how to make an 18 year request with react.
Up until this point the components that we have made we referred to as functional components.
So all the components we made we would refer to as functional components.
That is they are functions that return some amount of GSX to be displayed on the device.
And so as we look at album list right here it's a functional component.
The only rule behind these is that they must return some amount of GSX.
That's pretty much it to handle fetching of data.
We're going to have to use a second type of component which is called a class based component.
So we are now introducing a second type of component that we're going to be creating.
Let's check out a diagram to look at some of the differences between functional components and class
based components.
As I mentioned we've been using functional components up to this point and I've done example one down
here at the bottom functional components are great for introduction to react but their functionality
so to speak is a little bit limited.
You can kind of view them as an analogy of like a garden hose or a pipe you put data on one end and
GSX comes out the other and that's it.
There's no other ability for the component to fetch data or initiate more complicated operations.
They will figure out later on it's just data goes in GSX comes out.
That's it.
We traditionally use functional components for presentational needs like just displaying some content
to the user.
A fantastic example of this would be the header component we put together earlier the header.
All it has to do is take some header text and show a header.
That's it.
So that is a perfect use case for a functional component.
The second type of component that we're going to use is the class based component classmates class based
excuse me components are more complex and involve writing more code but they have a lot more functionality
built to them a lot more capability.
They can be used for fetching data.
They're easier to use to write large components.
And it's also easier to organize large amounts of code with them because we get a nice class type structure
where we can add many helper methods in there.
This type of component is called class based because it is based on six classes that extend a base class
of component this component base class is provided by remapped.
And we'll figure out how to wire that up.
In short we're going to need to re factor this album list component from a functional component to a
class based one because we want to use it to fetch some data with an age TTP request.
OK.
So that's our goal right now.
We're going to do the Reflektor and we're going to find out exactly how to use a class based component
to make an Ajax request.
So time to do Ari factor.
We're going from this functional component to a class based one therea factor of two in each six class
we are going to delete the function declaration or at the top.
So that step one is going to delete the entire thing and I can replace it with a class declaration instead
to declared each six class.
We first write the class keyword.
Then the name of the class which for us is going to be album list and then the class we want to extend
from.
So extends component and then I'm going to put plays an opening curly brace.
So I've got my opening curly brace up top and nice closing curly brace down here at the bottom by using
extends component right here we are indicating that we want to borrow a bunch of functionality from
this bass component class.
So do recall that all files in a re-act native project are kind of like silos so I'm making a reference
to component here but I don't have any declaration of component ahead of time so I need to make sure
that I import component this component base class can be imported from the re-act library.
Now unlike the destructuring that we used previously I don't want to replace this re-act declaration
with just destructuring out component to get access to component.
And the reason for that is keep in mind that whenever we write GSX like right here when babbel goes
through this and converts the GSX to just raw javascript it's going to turn all this GSX into a series
of re-act create element calls right.
We saw that in the battle rebel.
And so because it says specifically Riak does create element I have to keep react in the scope of this
file.
So there's just a little bit of trivia.
So to both import react but also d structure the component class out of it are going to use a little
bit a trick with import statements and to say import react.
And by the way I also want this component property from the re-act library as well.
So now we're both getting the re-act library and we're also receiving the component class out of it
as well.
OK.
One last thing to do for to complete already factor.
I placed my class declaration.
I've got the closing curly brace but now I've just got this kind of loose chunk of code that's sitting
in here right now.
Whenever I write a class based component we must define exactly one method and that method is called
the render method and the only requirement of the render method is that it returns some amount of GSX.
So whereas before we had a functional component that returns some amount of GSX we're now going to have
a render method that returns some amount of GSX.
So I'm going to add in here a render method by typing out render an opening curly brace and I going
to wrap all these GSX with the closing curly brace and then indent like so.
Finally at the very bottom I'm going to remove the semi colon because classes do not require semi-colons.
OK so that's it.
So one more time we refactor this from a functional component to a glass based component.
We use class based components whenever we want to use react to fetch data or whenever we want to have
a large component that might require some helper methods.
The only requirement of class based components is that we define a render method that returns some amount
of GSX then whenever this component gets rendered to the device re-act is going to call the render method
take whatever GSX gets returned and placed it on the screen of our device.
So at this point in time we should be able to refresh the simulator and still see the text album list
pop up on the screen.
So I for fresh and hot dog we still got our album list popping up here.
OK.
So fantastic.
We did already factor.
Let's continue in the next section and figure out exactly how we use class based components to fetch
data for our application